# roon-extension-ikea-tradfri

This is extension for roon to be able to switch Ikea Tr책dfri power
switches ex. when using an external Power Amplifier or powered
speakers which doesn't have a auto standby feature

------------
## Roon Extension Manager
The recommended way to install or update is via the [Roon Extension Manager](https://github.com/TheAppgineer/roon-extension-manager/wiki/Installation).

Install by opening the Settings dialog, select the Roon Tradfri from
the Device Control category and perform the Install action.

If the manager has auto update enabled then changes will be pulled in
the next time the update is performed. It is also possible to update
manually via the Settings dialog, select the Roon Tradfri from the
Device Control category and perform the Update action.

## Manual Installation

1. Install Node.js from https://nodejs.org.

   * On Windows, install from the above link.
   * On Mac OS, you can use [homebrew](http://brew.sh) to install Node.js.
   * On Linux, you can use your distribution's package manager, but make sure it installs a recent Node.js. Otherwise just install from the above link.

   The Roon Tradfri extension has only been tested with node16.x &
   node12.x 

   ```sh
   node -v
   ```

   For example:

   ```sh
   $ node -v
   v12.21.0
   ```

1. Install Git from https://git-scm.com/downloads.
   * Following the instructions for the Operating System you are running.

1. Download the Roon Tradfri extension.

   * Go to the [roon-extension-ikea-tradfri](https://github.com/HasseJohansen/roon-extension-ikea-tradfri/releases) page on [GitHub](https://github.com).
   * Pick the latest release(top one) and pick "Source code (zip)"

1. Extract the zip file in a local folder.

1. Change directory to the extension in the local folder:
    ```
    cd <local_folder>/roon-extension-alarm-clock
    ```
    *Replace `<local_folder>` with the local folder path.*

1. Install the dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

1. Run it!
    ```bash
    node .
    ```

    The extension should appear in Roon now. See Settings->Setup->Extensions and you should see it in the list. If you have multiple Roon Cores on the network, all of them should see it.

You can then subscribe to it (basically assigning it to the current
Roon Core)

After that you should go to settings and input the key of your Ikea
Tr책dfri Gateway(This is on the backside of it). 

The extension won't save this key anywhere, but the underlying
node-tradfri-client library will generate some derived keys from that
key it will use after the first run(and which it will save in it
config location)

After that go to settings again and choose the Ikea Tr책dfri Plug to
control and the Roon Zone which should control the powerstate

As it is now it will turn the Ikea Tr책dfri plug on when Roon state is
playing or loading or else it will turn off

I use this with a squeezebox player to control power to a pair of
active speakers in my bedroom (and also in combination with the Alarm
Clock extension). 

The status of the squeezebox is not working properly in Roon and that
is why I use the state playing, loading to turn on and else off. The
correct way would be to use the status field, but that is always
"indeterminate" for squeezeboxes. I think it has to do with a lack of
focus on the squeezebox compatibility

I also have a real Roon endpoint where Roon correctly sets the status
to "standby" when in standby (even though roon says standby_supported:
false on that endpoint - so status/state is really not implemented
well in roon/roon api)
